Christopher Paucar: Hello! I hope this finds you well, and today I'm going to be present to you the word that I've been doing in this. I. W. Seminar, Ted up predicting penalty, kicks Demo Models
Christopher Paucar: Football also on the soccer is the world's most popular sport. 2 teams have 11 play against each other, and if it's time we go to an extra 30, and if it's still tied, we go to a penalty, kick shootout
Christopher Paucar: where the kicker of one team has to shoot the ball past the goalkeeper into the net of the other team and the winner of the shootout when the entire game.
Christopher Paucar: and because of this penalty Kicks actually have a big role in deciding champions. You score one, you win the World Cup. Are you be the best sport, the best trophy and all the sport hail as a hero, or you miss scapegoated, and in this case
Christopher Paucar: abused by fans around the world, which is totally unacceptable.
Christopher Paucar: I've been on both sides. I've scored penalties, and I've sometimes missed them.
Christopher Paucar: And I've on TV Wash them live trying to predict if they'll go in or not.
Christopher Paucar: But what if there is a way to have a model?
Christopher Paucar: Predict it for me? What if there's a way for model to predict the scores?
Christopher Paucar: And compared against my own predictions and compared those with what actually happened. And so that's my goal.
Christopher Paucar: Using different mo models, I want to be able to offer the ability to predict whether penalty kick will go in or not, based on certain features. Some previous work I want to highlight on the left. We have robot keeper, which is a robotic goalkeeper that uses image processing
Christopher Paucar: and sensors on the ball.
Christopher Paucar: See how to predict where the ball will go.
Christopher Paucar: using dynamics and planning. Have the robot dive left, right up or down
Christopher Paucar: on the right side. We have this model, this predictor by lot, Brandon and Jesse Davis that uses in-game metrics
Christopher Paucar: to be able to predict whether a penalty kick will go, such as the Miss Shots of the shooter, the past accuracy of the Kicker.
Christopher Paucar: whereas in my case, I actually use data points from data sets which transitions into the steps that I use in this project. First, we're scattering data from data sets from
Christopher Paucar: the world top data set from 1,984 to 2,018, and the Primary League data set from 2,016 to 17.
Christopher Paucar: And then the third data set, which consists of the sub data sets a pounding is from Spain. La Liga, France, like on
Christopher Paucar: among others.
Christopher Paucar: and particularly I want to highlight these in both the missed penalty case. We will come in handy later on
Christopher Paucar: the pan. This Python library was very helpful in that, and that was feature engineering where I did feature extraction. Eda Random oversampling 100 coding, where again the Pandas library was essential.
Christopher Paucar: Third, I did binary classification. We're getting my models to be able to predict whether pounding it will go in or not with sk learn, and I am, you learn.
Christopher Paucar: being helpful Python libraries.
Christopher Paucar: and finally the iterative evaluation, the model performance. They go to score the goal of completing my Iw
Christopher Paucar: precision, accuracy, F. One squared roc with the sk learned seaboard and map of live being helpful in visualizing
Christopher Paucar: these results.
Christopher Paucar: First, I got a data from data sets. Some of them were very clean. I just use them, extract them. No problem. Some of them were a little more cleaning
Christopher Paucar: with the zones, for example, having to translate that into the left center or right. Other times I have to scour through Youtube, such as that. Such and what can be seen in the dark and cell basically jotting down, whether a pound to keep winning or not.
Christopher Paucar: with my data set now chosen. Now I use feature engineering where I decided to extract these features. Dominant foot take a direction, and the keeper direction
Christopher Paucar: with the labels. I wanted to predict being 0, whether a penalty, miss, or one a penalty goal.
Christopher Paucar: Next I perform one encoding, to be able to more accurately spread out the data and expand the number of features from 3 into 8 features, leaving me with a data set of 5, 28 by 9,
Christopher Paucar: 8 features, plus the target.
Christopher Paucar: However, something I did not take into account was that my data wasn't balanced Originally it was 70, 30, 70% going in 30% not.
Christopher Paucar: And this is where the missed penalty data stick came into play because I was able to equalize these 2
Christopher Paucar: labels more closer together with a 60% going in 40%, not going
Christopher Paucar: next for the models I decided to use. I decided to use these following models after performing right over for sampling.
Christopher Paucar: then I use base models which did not require hyper parameter tuning
Christopher Paucar: and compared it with grid search type of a parameter tuning, and then I use balance that classifier from I and B Learn and I decided to use a decision tree model in this case.
Christopher Paucar: Now I want to go over my evaluation results. On the left hand side. You have the F one at Roc scores. I decided not to use accuracy, since my data was in balance on the left side. You have base on the right hand side. You have, after hyper parameter tuning, as you could see.
Christopher Paucar: according to these metrics, very similar.
Christopher Paucar: So I just had to look at the confusion matrices. Here we have base decision, tree, random, forest, and the gradient boosting, and, as you can see, they were all identical, producing 20 times truly, that I went in and actually did for a due test that it did not go with, and it actually did not go in.
Christopher Paucar: Let's compare that with the Svm. And the logistic regression. Yes, Vm. Did not perform as well only 10 times compared to 28. No. that's not good enough. Logistic regression was definitely better than Svm. But not to the same extent as it was to the decision tree.
Christopher Paucar: Now let's compare this to the confusion Matrices of these 2 models with the on the left hand side after tuning with random forest decision tree
Christopher Paucar: identical 28 times a predict that it won it, and did 42 tests it. Did not go in and it didn't go in
Christopher Paucar: for the Svm. Actually did improve to 23 as compared to 10 before. but for the logistic regression that ended up being the same, and actually for great and to boosting, it actually did a bit worse.
Christopher Paucar: so I decided to scratch the Svm. The regression and the gradient boosting. and because they were identical, I decided to go with the decision tree.
Christopher Paucar: Now I want to take a look at the roc curves on the left hand side. You have the decision tree, the base, and on the right hand side you have the logistic regression, for by base.
Christopher Paucar: as you can see, the closer this is the top left-hand corner, the better and the base decision tree. Our secrets follow that whereas on the logistic side, since it very.
Christopher Paucar: it follows close to the white with X. It's no better than it's guessing. So I just had to go with the base decision Tree
Christopher Paucar: now results from my balance. That classifier, as you can see, the the the confusion matrix was actually pretty much the same. 28 times it went in, and it did go in, and it it did not go in, and it really didn't go in.
Christopher Paucar: and the Rc. Curve for the balance that was very similar.
So, as you can see.
Christopher Paucar: even after performing hyper parameter tuning and using a different type of model specifically made for in balanced data sets.
Christopher Paucar: which is now on my conclusion, I was at a stampede in terms of performance F one for that based decision. Tree was point 7. Roc score was point 6, 7,
and that surprised me. I didn't expect to
Christopher Paucar: be looking for more deciding factors and predicting penalty kicks. So, following the advice from Professor Lee, I intend to improve my performance by extracting more features.
Christopher Paucar: So there are more features that anticipated to be able to predict these penalty case, something that to me was a little more surprising.
Christopher Paucar: Some future work that I want to be able to conduct was using computer vision. In addition to looking for where the ball is going to go, which is what robot keeper did. Being able to look at the eyes of the penalty could take the head. Maybe the different body angles that the person is making as they about to kick the penalty.
Christopher Paucar: And this is an example getting these much more specific angles and using sensors to be able to predict where the penalty cake is gonna end up being
Christopher Paucar: last. But not least, I do want to give a big thanks to Professor and me, Patel, for the helpful advice throughout the semester to my classmates, and particularly Camille and Natalie, for the advice and the fun times we have throughout the semester.
Christopher Paucar: Thank you.